Plan International announces that Ms Anne-Birgitte Albrectsen will be leaving her current role as the CEO of the organisation in June 2021. Ms Albrectsen joined the organisation in September 2015 from her previous role as the United Nations Assistant Secretary General and Deputy Executive Director for Management at the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). Plan International’s International Board will imminently start the executive search for Ms Albrectsen’s replacement. Ms Gunvor Kronman, Chair of Plan International’s board lauded Ms Albrectsen for her 
leadership and service in furthering the mission of the organisation. She said: “During her tenure Ms Albrectsen led the organisation to redefine its purpose and strategy to further strengthen its position as one of the world’s leading development agencies that delivers lifesaving programmes to millions of vulnerable people across the world. “Ms Albrectsen played an instrumental role in steering Plan International on to the path of becoming the global voice for girls’ rights. From reshaping the organisational culture to establishing new partnerships and redesigning programmes, Ms Albrectsen embedded girls’ rights at the heart of Plan International’s operations. “The organisation has also embarked on a most critical journey to actively promote non-discrimination and equity internally as well as externally within the sector. All-in-all, today Plan international finds itself in a strong position to continue on its journey to transform the lives of girls and boys across the world.” The global child rights and humanitarian organisation is active in 75 countries and promotes the rights of the world’s most vulnerable children, especially girls. In the fiscal year 2020, Plan International raised €910 million and supported over 26 million girls and more than 24 million boys worldwide. Reflecting on her tenure, Ms Albrectsen, said: “It has been an honour and privilege to lead Plan International during a period of rapid external and internal change. I am proud of my own contribution, and even prouder of our staff across the world who wake up every day thinking about how they can disrupt entrenched inequalities and bring about social justice. I will treasure every moment with Plan International and wish my colleagues continued success.” Ms Albrectsen will start a new job in the autumn, which will allow her to continue to transform the lives of millions and advance the Sustainable Development Goals. In 2020, we have reached more girls than ever before, strengthened our programmes supporting gender equality and increased our ability to influence change despite unprecedented challenge. Read more in our annual review. Founded in 1937, Plan International is a development and humanitarian organisation that advances children’s rights and equality for girls. We strive for a just world, working together with children, young people, our supporters and partners.