 Welcoming the launch of the declaration on girls’ education ahead of the G7 summit, Yona Nestel, Inclusive Quality Education Lead for Plan International, said: “After a year of unprecedented disruption to schooling, we are pleased to see that this declaration includes clear political commitments to address the challenges faced by girls around the world in accessing a safe, inclusive, and quality education. “It is particularly welcome that the declaration recognises the role comprehensive sexuality education plays in adolescent girls’ access to a quality education, and recognises that supporting girls’ leadership is fundamental to a COVID-19 recovery that builds back equal and is greener, more inclusive, and more prosperous. We call on G7 leaders to unanimously sign on to the declaration. “However, to turn rhetoric into reality, this declaration must be backed with financing. Girls’ education around the world has been hit hard by lockdowns and school closures, with the world’s most marginalised girls bearing the brunt. Solutions for helping girls to catch up, return, learn and thrive in school are possible, but require political will, commitment to this declaration, and crucially, funding. If world leaders don’t step up, over 20 million may never return to school. “2021 is a year for action, and presents an opportunity to build back equal for a more gender just, climate just and socially just world. With an annual funding gap for global education reaching nearly $200 billion, all governments must step up and contribute by ensuring at least 15% of ODA and 20% of national budgets are earmarked for education.” We directly support millions of girls to get the education they need to transform their lives and the future of their communities. Young activists are speaking out about the urgency of reducing emissions. We must support them and put pressure on parties at COP24 to commit to tackling climate change, blogs Jess Cooke. Education is a fundamental right, yet in times of conflict and disaster it is often significantly disrupted, denying millions of girls and boys the opportunity to have a quality, safe education.